doc/Overview.rst, before:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Laurent El Shafey <Laurent.El-Shafey@idiap.ch>
.. Wed Mar 14 12:31:35 2012 +0100
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Research Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Python and C++ APIs
-------------------

The toolbox is written in a mix of `Python`_ and `C++`_ and is designed to be
both efficient and to reduce development time. `C++`_ has been chosen to write
fast code for the key features of the library. On top of it, `Python`_ bindings
are provided which allow to call the efficient C++ compiled code from an
interactive interpreter. This means that `Python`_ can be seen as a default
lab-like environment when using |project|, and that any other existing
`Python`_ tool could be easily glued to it.

Data representation
-------------------

The fundamental data structure of the library consists in multi-dimensional
arrays. In signal-processing and machine learning, arrays are indeed a suitable
representation for many different types of digital signals such as images,
audio data, extracted features, etc. At the C++ level, this support is achieved
with `Blitz++`_, whereas at the python level, `Numpy`_ arrays are used.

Mathematical and signal processing
----------------------------------

Machine learning algorithms and signal processing usually rely on a 
sequence of low level mathematical operations. For efficiency purpose,
eigenvalue decomposition, matrix inversion and other basic linear algebra 
are performed using `LAPACK`_ routines at the `C++`_ level. In addition,
Fast Fourier Transform is made possible via a bridge to the `FFTW`_ library.

Image processing
----------------

|project| has been developed by researchers tackling many machine vision
problems. Furthermore, numerous image processing tools are provided such as
filtering (Gaussian, Median, Gabor), visual feature extraction (LBP, SIFT
bridge to `VLFeat`_), face normalization and optical flow.

Machine learning
----------------

Several machine learning algorithms have been integrated into the library.
Dimensionality reduction is supported using Principal Component Analysis,
Linear Discriminant Analysis and its probabilistic variant. k-Means is provided
for data clustering, and classification is possible using both generative
modeling techniques (Gaussian Mixture Models, Join Factor Analysis) and
discriminative approaches such as Multi-Layer Perceptrons or Support Vector
Machine (via a `LIBSVM`_ bridge). Wrt. to machine learning, |project| relies on
the two following concepts: **machine** and **trainer**. A **machine** is fed
with an input **x** and generates an output **y**. For instance, a
**LinearMachine** projects the input data **x** into the output **y**, using an
internal projection matrix **W**. Such a machine could be trained with the
concept of **trainer**. For instance, the **LinearMachine** could be trained
using Principal Component Analysis or Linear Discriminant Analysis.

Storing and managing data
-------------------------

The library has been designed to run on various platforms and to be easily 
interfaced with any other software. Furthermore, we have chosen the open and 
portable `HDF5`_ library and file format as our core feature for storing 
and managing data. `HDF5`_ is very flexible and hence allows us to store simple 
multi-dimensional arrays as well as complex machine learning models. Many 
tools for viewing, and analyzing the data are already available.
In addition, we also support the loading and storing of most image formats
thanks to `ImageMagick`_, videos through `FFmpeg`_ as well as 
standard `Matlab`_ file using `MatIO`_.

Database support
----------------

The library currently provides an API to easily query and interface with 
well know biometric database. In particular, several protocols are integrated 
with the aim at improving reproducibility of scientific publications.

Performance Evaluation
----------------------

A module of the library is dedicated to performance evaluation. Computation
of false alarm and false rejection rate, equal error rate are supported as 
well as the generation of ROC, DET or EPC curves.

.. include:: links.rst

Commit message:

Re-write overview, introduce new graphics showing dependencies and interconnections to the kernel

doc/Overview.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Laurent El Shafey <Laurent.El-Shafey@idiap.ch>
.. Wed Mar 14 12:31:35 2012 +0100
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Research Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Introduction
-------------

|project| code base is subdivided in packages. Each package may depend on other
packages to work properly or on external software. There is no notion of
layering in the software structure. |project| is actually composed of a number
of re-usable components that can be deployed either separately or jointly
depending on user requirements. The following diagram may help you understand
what is the (loose) inter-dependency of |project|'s internal packages and
external software. Optional packages and external dependencies are marked with
dashed lines. Functionality shipped with the build you are currently using will
depend on software availability during compilation.

.. figure:: img/overview.png
  :alt: Overview of |project| packages and organization

  Organization of |project| packages and main dependencies.

Python and C++ APIs
-------------------

The toolbox is written in a mix of `Python`_ and `C++`_ and is designed to be
both efficient and to reduce development time. `C++`_ has been chosen to write
fast code for the key features of the library. On top of it, `Python`_ bindings
are provided which allow to call the efficient C++ compiled code from an
interactive interpreter. This means that `Python`_ can be seen as a default
lab-like environment when using |project|, and that any other existing
`Python`_ tool could be easily glued to it.

Data representation
-------------------

The fundamental data structure of the library consists in multi-dimensional
arrays. In signal-processing and machine learning, arrays are indeed a suitable
representation for many different types of digital signals such as images,
audio data, extracted features, etc. At the C++ level, this support is achieved
with `Blitz++`_, whereas at the python level, `Numpy`_ arrays are used.

Mathematical and signal processing
----------------------------------

Machine learning algorithms and signal processing usually rely on a 
sequence of low level mathematical operations. For efficiency purpose,
eigenvalue decomposition, matrix inversion and other basic linear algebra 
are performed using `LAPACK`_ routines at the `C++`_ level. In addition,
Fast Fourier Transform is made possible via a bridge to the `FFTW`_ library.

Image processing
----------------

|project| has been developed by researchers tackling many machine vision
problems. Furthermore, numerous image processing tools are provided such as
filtering (Gaussian, Median, Gabor), visual feature extraction (LBP, SIFT
bridge to `VLFeat`_), face normalization and optical flow.

Machine learning
----------------

Several machine learning algorithms have been integrated into the library.
Dimensionality reduction is supported using Principal Component Analysis,
Linear Discriminant Analysis and its probabilistic variant. k-Means is provided
for data clustering, and classification is possible using both generative
modeling techniques (Gaussian Mixture Models, Join Factor Analysis) and
discriminative approaches such as Multi-Layer Perceptrons or Support Vector
Machine (via a `LIBSVM`_ bridge). Wrt. to machine learning, |project| relies on
the two following concepts: **machine** and **trainer**. A **machine** is fed
with an input **x** and generates an output **y**. For instance, a
**LinearMachine** projects the input data **x** into the output **y**, using an
internal projection matrix **W**. Such a machine could be trained with the
concept of **trainer**. For instance, the **LinearMachine** could be trained
using Principal Component Analysis or Linear Discriminant Analysis.

Storing and managing data
-------------------------

The library has been designed to run on various platforms and to be easily 
interfaced with any other software. Furthermore, we have chosen the open and 
portable `HDF5`_ library and file format as our core feature for storing 
and managing data. `HDF5`_ is very flexible and hence allows us to store simple 
multi-dimensional arrays as well as complex machine learning models. Many 
tools for viewing, and analyzing the data are already available.
In addition, we also support the loading and storing of most image formats
thanks to `ImageMagick`_, videos through `FFmpeg`_ as well as 
standard `Matlab`_ file using `MatIO`_.

Database support
----------------

The library currently provides an API to easily query and interface with 
well know biometric database. In particular, several protocols are integrated 
with the aim at improving reproducibility of scientific publications.

Performance Evaluation
----------------------

A module of the library is dedicated to performance evaluation. Computation
of false alarm and false rejection rate, equal error rate are supported as 
well as the generation of ROC, DET or EPC curves.

.. include:: links.rst
