src/python/db/doc/index.rst, before:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Thu 23 Jun 11:46:16 2011 CEST

.. Index file for the bob databases

===========
 Databases
===========

Reference
---------

.. automodule:: bob.db

BANCA Database
==============

.. automodule:: bob.db.banca

.. autoclass:: bob.db.banca.Database
  :members:

Biosecure Database
==================

.. automodule:: bob.db.biosecure

.. autoclass:: bob.db.biosecure.Database
  :members:

MOBIO Database
==============

.. automodule:: bob.db.mobio

.. autoclass:: bob.db.mobio.Database
  :members:

Multipie Database
=================

.. automodule:: bob.db.multipie

.. autoclass:: bob.db.multipie.Database
  :members:

Replay Attack Database
======================

.. automodule:: bob.db.replay

.. autoclass:: bob.db.replay.Database
  :members:

SCface Database
===============

.. automodule:: bob.db.scface

.. autoclass:: bob.db.scface.Database
  :members:

Iris Database
=============

.. automodule:: bob.db.iris
  :members:

XM2VTS Database
===============

.. automodule:: bob.db.xm2vts

.. autoclass:: bob.db.xm2vts.Database
  :members:

Commit message:

Tag source files with copyright

src/python/db/doc/index.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Thu Jun 23 11:55:24 2011 +0200
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Reasearch Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. Index file for the bob databases

===========
 Databases
===========

Reference
---------

.. automodule:: bob.db

BANCA Database
==============

.. automodule:: bob.db.banca

.. autoclass:: bob.db.banca.Database
  :members:

Biosecure Database
==================

.. automodule:: bob.db.biosecure

.. autoclass:: bob.db.biosecure.Database
  :members:

MOBIO Database
==============

.. automodule:: bob.db.mobio

.. autoclass:: bob.db.mobio.Database
  :members:

Multipie Database
=================

.. automodule:: bob.db.multipie

.. autoclass:: bob.db.multipie.Database
  :members:

Replay Attack Database
======================

.. automodule:: bob.db.replay

.. autoclass:: bob.db.replay.Database
  :members:

SCface Database
===============

.. automodule:: bob.db.scface

.. autoclass:: bob.db.scface.Database
  :members:

Iris Database
=============

.. automodule:: bob.db.iris
  :members:

XM2VTS Database
===============

.. automodule:: bob.db.xm2vts

.. autoclass:: bob.db.xm2vts.Database
  :members:
