src/doc/CodingGuidelines.rst, before:

===================
 Coding Guidelines
===================

If you plan to write code that should be incorporated in |project|, here are a
few websites to get you started. Don't take everything to the letter, but
observe good practices from the software that already exists and derive from
there.

Git Tips
--------

For Bob development we use the Git_ version control system. If you don't have a
clue on how to use Git, please refer to the official `Git tutorial`_. In here,
we assume you have already gone through all introductory material on Git and is
ready to get your hands dirty with Bob.

Before you start
================

Make sure you have git installed on your system and configure your name and
email address:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git config --global user.name "Your Name"
  $ git config --global user.email "you@example.com"

Cloning the central Torch repository
====================================

To clone the central Bob repository, just do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git clone /idiap/group/torch5spro/git/bob.git

This clones the repository into a newly created directory, creates
remote-tracking branches for each branch in the cloned repository (visible
using ``git branch -r``).

Working with branches
=====================

After cloning our repository, you should be sitting in the ``master`` branch.
You can list all available branches like this:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git branch

To switch to another branch just do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git checkout <wanted-branch>

Pushing your changes
====================

If you are an authorized developer, you can push your changes back into the
central repository. Please, **make sure you comment your commits** and have
your global email and name configurations set as described above. Also
double-check your changes compile without problems and all of the
:doc:`GoldenRules` have been respected. Then, from your cloned repository, do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git push

Tagging and Branching
=====================

For Bob development, we adopt the following scheme for tagging and branching:

* Tagging can be done on the master branch when milestones are reached,
  important steps have been accomplished or in the event of releases;
* Branching is only allowed when releasing an new version of Torch. Avoid
  pushing local branches forked for your private development into the main
  repository. Only push branches that should belong to the project history.

C++ Coding Guidelines
---------------------

* `C++ FAQ`_: A must if you want to write reliable code
* `C++ Coding Standard`_
* `The Google C++ Style Guide`_
* `The CERN C++ Style`_
* Book: *C++ Coding Standards by Herb Sutter* and Andrei Alexandrescu

Here are some C++ tips we have found useful:

* Optimization: **Don't**. If you still want to do it, please make sure you
  fully read :doc:`OptimizingBob`.
* DRY: means `Don't repeat yourself`_. You should apply this principle at
  **all** moments while you are coding to avoid repeating bugs or only
  partially fixing them
* Let it crash: Don't use (ever) ``exit()`` outside the scope of ``main()``
* Prefer stack allocation: Dynamic memory allocation and high-performance
  computing are two things that don't go well together. That is for a good
  reason: dynamic memory allocation can be quite slow in many circumstances.
  You should avoid it when possible
* You are not better than the compiler: Do not replace the compiler! Every time
  we do a runtime check that could have been executed by a compiler at
  compilation time, we are just wasting resources.
* Avoid breaking encapsulation: If you have designed your code right, you
  should not need to find out hidden information about objects.
* Avoid global variables: Global variables are evil
* Make methods concise: This one is obvious and most would agree that small,
  readable code is easier to understand. The problem is that it takes a bit
  more of time to write it down and people end up not doing it
* Use references instead of pointers: The rule is simple: if you can use
  references, don't use pointers.
* Use ``const``: The use of the ``const`` keyword says a lot about an API. It
  determines what is the fate of objects that are passed in or out through a
  call and give the programmer some assurance on the variable's fate. It allows
  compilers to more aggressively optimize underlying code.
* Document your code: It does not matter how many times you say it, it is
  always better to say it again: document, document, document! Undocumented
  code is useless.

Python Coding Guidelines
------------------------

* `The Google Python Style Guide`_

.. Place your references here:

.. _`c++ faq`: http://www.parashift.com/c++-faq-lite/
.. _`c++ coding standard`: http://www.possibility.com/Cpp/CppCodingStandard.html
.. _`the google c++ style guide`: http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/cppguide.xml
.. _`the cern c++ style`: http://pst.cern.ch/HandBookWorkBook/Handbook/Programming/CodingStandard/c++standard.pdf
.. _`the google python style guide`: http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyguide.html
.. _`don't repeat yourself`: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don't_repeat_yourself
.. _`Git`: http://git-scm.com/
.. _`Git Tutorial`: http://schacon.github.com/git/gittutorial.html

Commit message:

Tag source files with copyright

src/doc/CodingGuidelines.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Tue Apr 26 18:35:34 2011 +0200
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Reasearch Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

===================
 Coding Guidelines
===================

If you plan to write code that should be incorporated in |project|, here are a
few websites to get you started. Don't take everything to the letter, but
observe good practices from the software that already exists and derive from
there.

Git Tips
--------

For Bob development we use the Git_ version control system. If you don't have a
clue on how to use Git, please refer to the official `Git tutorial`_. In here,
we assume you have already gone through all introductory material on Git and is
ready to get your hands dirty with Bob.

Before you start
================

Make sure you have git installed on your system and configure your name and
email address:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git config --global user.name "Your Name"
  $ git config --global user.email "you@example.com"

Cloning the central Torch repository
====================================

To clone the central Bob repository, just do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git clone /idiap/group/torch5spro/git/bob.git

This clones the repository into a newly created directory, creates
remote-tracking branches for each branch in the cloned repository (visible
using ``git branch -r``).

Working with branches
=====================

After cloning our repository, you should be sitting in the ``master`` branch.
You can list all available branches like this:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git branch

To switch to another branch just do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git checkout <wanted-branch>

Pushing your changes
====================

If you are an authorized developer, you can push your changes back into the
central repository. Please, **make sure you comment your commits** and have
your global email and name configurations set as described above. Also
double-check your changes compile without problems and all of the
:doc:`GoldenRules` have been respected. Then, from your cloned repository, do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ git push

Tagging and Branching
=====================

For Bob development, we adopt the following scheme for tagging and branching:

* Tagging can be done on the master branch when milestones are reached,
  important steps have been accomplished or in the event of releases;
* Branching is only allowed when releasing an new version of Torch. Avoid
  pushing local branches forked for your private development into the main
  repository. Only push branches that should belong to the project history.

C++ Coding Guidelines
---------------------

* `C++ FAQ`_: A must if you want to write reliable code
* `C++ Coding Standard`_
* `The Google C++ Style Guide`_
* `The CERN C++ Style`_
* Book: *C++ Coding Standards by Herb Sutter* and Andrei Alexandrescu

Here are some C++ tips we have found useful:

* Optimization: **Don't**. If you still want to do it, please make sure you
  fully read :doc:`OptimizingBob`.
* DRY: means `Don't repeat yourself`_. You should apply this principle at
  **all** moments while you are coding to avoid repeating bugs or only
  partially fixing them
* Let it crash: Don't use (ever) ``exit()`` outside the scope of ``main()``
* Prefer stack allocation: Dynamic memory allocation and high-performance
  computing are two things that don't go well together. That is for a good
  reason: dynamic memory allocation can be quite slow in many circumstances.
  You should avoid it when possible
* You are not better than the compiler: Do not replace the compiler! Every time
  we do a runtime check that could have been executed by a compiler at
  compilation time, we are just wasting resources.
* Avoid breaking encapsulation: If you have designed your code right, you
  should not need to find out hidden information about objects.
* Avoid global variables: Global variables are evil
* Make methods concise: This one is obvious and most would agree that small,
  readable code is easier to understand. The problem is that it takes a bit
  more of time to write it down and people end up not doing it
* Use references instead of pointers: The rule is simple: if you can use
  references, don't use pointers.
* Use ``const``: The use of the ``const`` keyword says a lot about an API. It
  determines what is the fate of objects that are passed in or out through a
  call and give the programmer some assurance on the variable's fate. It allows
  compilers to more aggressively optimize underlying code.
* Document your code: It does not matter how many times you say it, it is
  always better to say it again: document, document, document! Undocumented
  code is useless.

Python Coding Guidelines
------------------------

* `The Google Python Style Guide`_

.. Place your references here:

.. _`c++ faq`: http://www.parashift.com/c++-faq-lite/
.. _`c++ coding standard`: http://www.possibility.com/Cpp/CppCodingStandard.html
.. _`the google c++ style guide`: http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/cppguide.xml
.. _`the cern c++ style`: http://pst.cern.ch/HandBookWorkBook/Handbook/Programming/CodingStandard/c++standard.pdf
.. _`the google python style guide`: http://google-styleguide.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/pyguide.html
.. _`don't repeat yourself`: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don't_repeat_yourself
.. _`Git`: http://git-scm.com/
.. _`Git Tutorial`: http://schacon.github.com/git/gittutorial.html
