src/doc/index.rst, before:

.. Laurent El-Shafey <Laurent.El-Shafey@idiap.ch>
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Sun  3 Apr 15:50:59 2011 CEST

.. Master file, created by sphinx-quickstart on Mon Mar 21 18:07:34 2011.  You
   can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least contain
   the root `toctree` directive.

=======================
 The |project| Project
=======================

|project| is a signal-processing and machine learning toolbox for Biometrics
developed at  `Idiap`_, in Switzerland. The toolbox is written in C++ and is
designed to be efficient. To learn about this project's history, please visit
:doc:`BobHistory`.

We believe in free software and development standards. |project| is a
open-sourced and licensed under the GPL version 3 license terms. For more
information on licensing, please visit our :doc:`BobLicensing`.

Enjoy!
The |project| Team

Practicalities
--------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   BobLicensing
   BobInstallation
   BobTicketReporting
   BobHistory

User Guide
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   StartUpUsingBob
   ../cxx/doc/index
   ../python/doc/index

Developer's Guide
-----------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   GoldenRules
   CodingGuidelines
   OptimizingBob

Indices and tables
------------------

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. Place here your external references

.. _idiap: http://www.idiap.ch

Commit message:

Tag source files with copyright

src/doc/index.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Laurent El Shafey <Laurent.El-Shafey@idiap.ch>
.. Sat Mar 26 12:16:11 2011 +0100
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Reasearch Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. Master file, created by sphinx-quickstart on Mon Mar 21 18:07:34 2011.  You
   can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least contain
   the root `toctree` directive.

=======================
 The |project| Project
=======================

|project| is a signal-processing and machine learning toolbox for Biometrics
developed at  `Idiap`_, in Switzerland. The toolbox is written in C++ and is
designed to be efficient. To learn about this project's history, please visit
:doc:`BobHistory`.

We believe in free software and development standards. |project| is a
open-sourced and licensed under the GPL version 3 license terms. For more
information on licensing, please visit our :doc:`BobLicensing`.

Enjoy!
The |project| Team

Practicalities
--------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   BobLicensing
   BobInstallation
   BobTicketReporting
   BobHistory

User Guide
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   StartUpUsingBob
   ../cxx/doc/index
   ../python/doc/index

Developer's Guide
-----------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   GoldenRules
   CodingGuidelines
   OptimizingBob

Indices and tables
------------------

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

.. Place here your external references

.. _idiap: http://www.idiap.ch
