src/cxx/core/doc/UsingBlitzArrays.rst, before:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.dos.anjos@gmail.com>
.. Mon  4 Apr 22:15:19 2011 

=================================
 Using Blitz Arrays in |project|
=================================

You can use `Blitz`_ arrays as tensor primitives. For a complete description on
how to use `Blitz`_ arrays, please refer to the `Blitz Manual`_. In this
guide we just give a brief introduction to some of Blitz array properties for a
quick start.

.. note::
  Please refer to :doc:`../../../python/core/doc/UsingBlitzArrays` for a
  detailed list and element type names we support.

Construction
------------

Blitz arrays are templates, so you must the element types and the number of
dimensions are part of the type. Here is how to declare arrays:

.. code-block:: c++
    
   #include <blitz/array.h>
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 1> empty();
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 3> my(3, 3, 3); //uninitialized, 3x3x3
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> other(2, 2); //uninitialized, 2x2

   //Blitz also allows powerful initializations:
   other = {1, 2, 3, 4};

   //Blitz and the use of expressions:
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> other_squared(other*other);

Element access
--------------

To access elements in a Blitz array, one uses the parenthesis operator:

.. code-block:: c++

  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> my();
  my = 0; //a complete fill of all positions
  int16_t val = my(0, 0); 
  const int16_t& v3 = my(1, 0); //gets a reference
  my(0, 1) = v3; //sets the value internally

Selection, transposition and narrowing
--------------------------------------

Blitz arrays use an underlying memory system to map array positions into
contiguously allocated regions. Two or more arrays can share the underlying
memory. To create a modified version of an array, pointing to the same memory
and therefore having access to the same data, use the following:

.. code-block:: c++

  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> my(100, 100);
  blitz::Array<int16_t, 1> selected(my(blitz::Range::all(), 50));
  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> narrowed(my(blitz::Range::all(), blitz::Range(50, 80));
  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> transposed(my);
  transposed.transposeSelf(1, 0); //transposes dimensions 1 <-> 0

Please note that Blitz arrays are not limited to these operations, you can
select any number of transposition dimensions in a single call or narrow in
multiple dimensions. Please refer to the `Blitz manual`_ for more details.

Loading and saving Blitz arrays in text mode with the Blitz adapter
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The default implementation of Blitz++ overloads the streaming operators ``>>``
and ``<<``. However, this mechanism does not provide information such as the
number of dimensions or the type of the multiarray, which might cause tricky
problems. For this purpose, a Blitz adapter class was created.

An example, on how to use this adapter to save and read a array from a stream
(in this case a file), is shown below:

.. code-block:: c++

  typedef blitz::Array<double,2> BAd2;

  // Save the blitz array to a file
  BAd2 bl1(2,2); // create a multiarray
  bl1 = 1.1, 0.5, 
        0.3, 1.4; // initialize the multiarray
  bob::core::BlitzAdapter<BAd2> X(bl1); // create and initialize the BlitzAdapter
  std::ofstream out_d("multiarray.blitz"); // An output file stream
  out_d << X; // save the blitzarray
  out_d.close(); // close the output stream

  // Read the blitz array from a file
  BAd2 bl2(2,2); // create a multiarray
  std::ifstream in_d("multiarray.blitz"); // An input file stream
  bob::core::BlitzAdapter<BAd2> Y(bl2); // create and initialize the BlitzAdapter
  in_d >> Y; // read the blitz array and put it in bl2
  in_d.close(); // close the input stream

The type stored in an output file stream corresponds to the result of the C++
``typeid()`` function. The resulting string might depend on the environment
(compiler). If the type needs to be ignored when reading a blitz array from a
file, the creation of a Blitz adapter should be done as follow: 

.. code-block:: c++
  
  typedef blitz::Array<double,2> BAd2; BAd2 bl(2,2); // creates a array
  bob::core::BlitzAdapter<BAd2> Y(bl, false); // creates a Blitz adapter which will not perform type checking 
                                                // (second argument of the constructor set to false, whereas default value is true)

You can make use of our ``bob::core::In/OutputStream`` to input and output
data in compressed format (as with gzip), which might save you some space.
Please read InputOutput for details.

.. Place your references down here
.. _blitz: http://www.oonumerics.org/blitz/
.. _blitz manual: http://www.oonumerics.org/blitz/docs/blitz.html
.. _numpy: http://numpy.scipy.org/

Commit message:

Tag source files with copyright

src/cxx/core/doc/UsingBlitzArrays.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Mon Apr 4 23:32:43 2011 +0200
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Reasearch Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=================================
 Using Blitz Arrays in |project|
=================================

You can use `Blitz`_ arrays as tensor primitives. For a complete description on
how to use `Blitz`_ arrays, please refer to the `Blitz Manual`_. In this
guide we just give a brief introduction to some of Blitz array properties for a
quick start.

.. note::
  Please refer to :doc:`../../../python/core/doc/UsingBlitzArrays` for a
  detailed list and element type names we support.

Construction
------------

Blitz arrays are templates, so you must the element types and the number of
dimensions are part of the type. Here is how to declare arrays:

.. code-block:: c++
    
   #include <blitz/array.h>
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 1> empty();
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 3> my(3, 3, 3); //uninitialized, 3x3x3
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> other(2, 2); //uninitialized, 2x2

   //Blitz also allows powerful initializations:
   other = {1, 2, 3, 4};

   //Blitz and the use of expressions:
   blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> other_squared(other*other);

Element access
--------------

To access elements in a Blitz array, one uses the parenthesis operator:

.. code-block:: c++

  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> my();
  my = 0; //a complete fill of all positions
  int16_t val = my(0, 0); 
  const int16_t& v3 = my(1, 0); //gets a reference
  my(0, 1) = v3; //sets the value internally

Selection, transposition and narrowing
--------------------------------------

Blitz arrays use an underlying memory system to map array positions into
contiguously allocated regions. Two or more arrays can share the underlying
memory. To create a modified version of an array, pointing to the same memory
and therefore having access to the same data, use the following:

.. code-block:: c++

  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> my(100, 100);
  blitz::Array<int16_t, 1> selected(my(blitz::Range::all(), 50));
  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> narrowed(my(blitz::Range::all(), blitz::Range(50, 80));
  blitz::Array<int16_t, 2> transposed(my);
  transposed.transposeSelf(1, 0); //transposes dimensions 1 <-> 0

Please note that Blitz arrays are not limited to these operations, you can
select any number of transposition dimensions in a single call or narrow in
multiple dimensions. Please refer to the `Blitz manual`_ for more details.

Loading and saving Blitz arrays in text mode with the Blitz adapter
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The default implementation of Blitz++ overloads the streaming operators ``>>``
and ``<<``. However, this mechanism does not provide information such as the
number of dimensions or the type of the multiarray, which might cause tricky
problems. For this purpose, a Blitz adapter class was created.

An example, on how to use this adapter to save and read a array from a stream
(in this case a file), is shown below:

.. code-block:: c++

  typedef blitz::Array<double,2> BAd2;

  // Save the blitz array to a file
  BAd2 bl1(2,2); // create a multiarray
  bl1 = 1.1, 0.5, 
        0.3, 1.4; // initialize the multiarray
  bob::core::BlitzAdapter<BAd2> X(bl1); // create and initialize the BlitzAdapter
  std::ofstream out_d("multiarray.blitz"); // An output file stream
  out_d << X; // save the blitzarray
  out_d.close(); // close the output stream

  // Read the blitz array from a file
  BAd2 bl2(2,2); // create a multiarray
  std::ifstream in_d("multiarray.blitz"); // An input file stream
  bob::core::BlitzAdapter<BAd2> Y(bl2); // create and initialize the BlitzAdapter
  in_d >> Y; // read the blitz array and put it in bl2
  in_d.close(); // close the input stream

The type stored in an output file stream corresponds to the result of the C++
``typeid()`` function. The resulting string might depend on the environment
(compiler). If the type needs to be ignored when reading a blitz array from a
file, the creation of a Blitz adapter should be done as follow: 

.. code-block:: c++
  
  typedef blitz::Array<double,2> BAd2; BAd2 bl(2,2); // creates a array
  bob::core::BlitzAdapter<BAd2> Y(bl, false); // creates a Blitz adapter which will not perform type checking 
                                                // (second argument of the constructor set to false, whereas default value is true)

You can make use of our ``bob::core::In/OutputStream`` to input and output
data in compressed format (as with gzip), which might save you some space.
Please read InputOutput for details.

.. Place your references down here
.. _blitz: http://www.oonumerics.org/blitz/
.. _blitz manual: http://www.oonumerics.org/blitz/docs/blitz.html
.. _numpy: http://numpy.scipy.org/
