python/doc/Compilation.rst, before:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Wed Jan 11 14:43:35 2012 +0100
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Research Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. _section-compilation:

==============================
 Compiling |project| Yourself
==============================

.. ****************************** BIG WARNING ********************************
.. If you update this document, please make sure to also update the INSTALL.md
.. file at the root of bob. It contains a simplified version of these
.. instructions. Thanks.
.. ****************************** BIG WARNING ********************************

Obtaining the code
------------------

To compile |project| locally you need to first set your mind on what to
work with. You can choose between a released stable version from 
`our release wiki page <https://github.com/idiap/bob/wiki/Releases>`_ or
checkout and build yourself as explained further below.

.. warning::

  Make sure you read and install all requirements defined in
  :doc:`Dependencies`, prior to compiling and using |project|.

Grab a tarball and change into the directory of your choice, let's say
``mybob``:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ mkdir workdir
  $ cd workdir
  # getting version 1.0.0 as a tarball
  $ wget https://github.com/idiap/bob/tarball/v1.0
  $ tar xvfz bob-1.0.0.tar.gz
  $ cd bob-1.0.0

.. _section-checkout:

Cloning |project|
-----------------

To checkout |project|, do the following at your shell prompt:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ git clone https://github.com/idiap/bob

After cloning, you will need a copy of the databases supported by the project.
Just do the followin commands before attempting to compile |project|:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ cd bob
  $ bin/dbdownload.py --verbose

Compiling the code
------------------

Just execute:

.. code-block:: sh
   
   $ # supposing bob is unpackaged at ./bob-1.0.0
   $ mkdir bob-1.0.0-build
   $ cd bob-1.0.0-build
   $ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ../bob-1.0.0
   # run the whole build
   $ make

After building, you can execute all unit tests to make sure the build is (as)
reliable (as it can be):

.. code-block:: sh

  $ make test
  # if you prefer, you can directly use ctest
  $ ctest -V
  # you can also run the built-in tests at the documentation
  $ make sphinx-doctest

The documentation can be generated with other specific make targets:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ make doxygen #generates the C++ API documentation
   $ make sphinx #generates the HTML user guide
   $ make sphinx-latex #generates the PDF user guide

You don't need to to install |project| to use it. If you wish to do it though,
you need to do it by calling ``make`` again:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ make install
  $ make install-doxygen
  $ make install-sphinx

The installation base directory is set to cmake's default, which is usually on
an administrator restricted area, such as ``/usr/local``. If you wish to install
the build in a different directory, you need to tell ``cmake`` the installation
prefix:

.. code-block:: sh

  # installs on ../bob-1.0.0-install
  $ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=../bob-1.0.0-install ../bob-1.0.0
  $ make
  $ make install

Influential CMake Variables
===========================

Some variables that may be handy:

 * `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`: options `Release` or `Debug` are supported
 * `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`: places to look-up for external dependencies
 * `WITH_PYTHON`: if you would like to force a specific version of python, you
   can define it with this variable
 * `WITH_IPYTHON`: if you would like to force a specific version of ipython, you
   can define it with this variable
 * `BOB_INSTALL_PYTHON_INTERPRETER`: installs a version of `Python` (and
   `IPython`, if found) in the `<CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH>/bin` directory. This
   variable is useful **only** for local installations of |project| in with a
   non-default Python interpreter in which you want to facilitate the end-user
   setup. It is `OFF` by default.

Troubleshooting compilation
===========================

Most of the problems concerning compilation come from not satisfying correctly
the :ref:`section-dependencies`. Start by double-checking every dependency or
base OS and check everything is as expected. If after exhausting all of these
possibilities you are still unable to compile |project|, please 
`submit a new bug report`_ in our tracking system. At this time make sure to
specify your OS version and the versions of the external dependencies so we can
try to reproduce the failure.

.. include:: links.rst

Commit message:

Updated documentation after build modifications

python/doc/Compilation.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Wed Jan 11 14:43:35 2012 +0100
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Research Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. _section-compilation:

==============================
 Compiling |project| Yourself
==============================

.. ****************************** BIG WARNING ********************************
.. If you update this document, please make sure to also update the INSTALL.md
.. file at the root of bob. It contains a simplified version of these
.. instructions. Thanks.
.. ****************************** BIG WARNING ********************************

Obtaining the code
------------------

To compile |project| locally you need to first set your mind on what to
work with. You can choose between a released stable version from 
`our release wiki page <https://github.com/idiap/bob/wiki/Releases>`_ or
checkout and build yourself as explained further below.

.. warning::

  Make sure you read and install all requirements defined in
  :doc:`Dependencies`, prior to compiling and using |project|.

Grab a release tarball and change into the directory of your choice, let's say
``mybob``:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ mkdir workdir
  $ cd workdir
  # getting version 1.0.5 as a tarball
  $ wget http://www.idiap.ch/software/bob/packages/bob-1.0.5.tar.gz
  $ tar xvfz bob-1.0.5.tar.gz
  $ cd bob-1.0.5

.. _section-checkout:

Cloning |project|
-----------------

To checkout |project|, do the following at your shell prompt:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ git clone https://github.com/idiap/bob

Compiling the code
------------------

Just execute:

.. code-block:: sh
   
   $ cd <bob-root>
   $ mkdir build
   $ cd build
   $ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
   # run the whole build
   $ make

After building, you can execute all unit tests to make sure the build is (as)
reliable (as it can be):

.. code-block:: sh

  $ make test
  # if you prefer, you can directly use ctest
  $ ctest -V
  # to execute Python tests:
  $ make nosetests
  # you can also run the built-in tests at the documentation
  $ make sphinx-doctest

The documentation can be generated with other specific make targets:

.. code-block:: sh

   $ make doxygen #generates the C++ API documentation in html format
   $ make sphinx #generates the HTML user guide
   $ make sphinx-latex #generates the PDF user guide

You don't need to to install |project| to use it. If you wish to do it though,
you need to do it by calling ``make`` again:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ make install
  $ make install-doxygen
  $ make install-sphinx

The installation base directory is set to cmake's default, which is usually on
an administrator restricted area, such as ``/usr/local``. If you wish to
install the build in a different directory, you need to tell ``cmake`` the
installation prefix:

.. code-block:: sh

  # installs on /my/preferred/path
  $ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/my/preferred/path ..
  $ make
  $ make install

Influential CMake Variables
===========================

Some variables that may be handy:

 * `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`: options `Release` or `Debug` are supported
 * `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH`: places to look-up for external dependencies
 * `WITH_PYTHON`: if you would like to force a specific version of python, you
   can define it with this variable
 * `WITH_IPYTHON`: if you would like to force a specific version of ipython, you
   can define it with this variable
 * `BOB_INSTALL_PYTHON_INTERPRETER`: installs a version of `Python` (and
   `IPython`, if found) in the `<CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH>/bin` directory. This
   variable is useful **only** for local installations of |project| in with a
   non-default Python interpreter in which you want to facilitate the end-user
   setup. It is `OFF` by default.

Troubleshooting compilation
===========================

Most of the problems concerning compilation come from not satisfying correctly
the :ref:`section-dependencies`. Start by double-checking every dependency or
base OS and check everything is as expected. If after exhausting all of these
possibilities you are still unable to compile |project|, please 
`submit a new bug report`_ in our tracking system. At this time make sure to
specify your OS version and the versions of the external dependencies so we can
try to reproduce the failure.

Eager for more functionality?
=============================

|project| functionality can be augmented by the use of `Satellite Packages`_.
Please check that page for more material before start developing your own tools
based on |project|.

.. include:: links.rst
