python/doc/TutorialsAP.rst, before:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Elie Khoury <Elie.Khoury@idiap.ch>
.. Mon Jan 21 20:57:30 2013 +0100
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Idiap Research Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. testsetup:: iptest
  
  import bob
  import numpy
  import math
  import os
    
  def F(m, f):
    from pkg_resources import resource_filename
    return resource_filename('bob.%s.test' % m, os.path.join('data', f))

  image_path = F('ip', 'image_r10.pgm')
  color_image_path = F('ip', 'imageColor.ppm')
  numpy.set_printoptions(precision=3, suppress=True)


*****************************
 Audio processing
*****************************


Introduction
============

This section will give a deeper insight in some simple and some more complex audio processing utilities of |project|. Currently, only cepstral extraction module is available. We are planning to update and add more features in the near future.


Simple audio processing
=======================
Below are 3 examples on how to read a wavefile and how to compute Linear frequency Cepstral Coefficients (LFCC) and Mel frequency cepstrum coefficients (MFCC).

Reading audio files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The usual native formats can be read with **scipy.io.wavfile** module. Other wave formats can be found in some other python modules like **pysox**.

.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> import scipy.io.wavfile, os
  >>> wav_filename = os.path.join(root_bob, 'python/bob/ap/test/data/sample.wav')
  >>> rate, signal = scipy.io.wavfile.read(str(wav_filename)); # the data is read in its native format
  >>> print rate
  8000
  >>> print signal
  [  28   72   58 ..., -301   89  230]

In the above example, the sampling rate of the audio signal is **8 KHz** and the signal array is of type **int16**.

User can directly compute the duration of signal (in seconds):

.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> len(signal)/rate 
  2


LFCC and MFCC Extraction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LFCC and MFCC coefficients can be extracted from a audio signal by using :py:func:`bob.ap.Ceps`. To do so, several parameters can be precised by the user. The following values are the default ones:
 
.. doctest:: iptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> win_length_ms = 20 # The window length of the cepstral analysis in milliseconds
  >>> win_shift_ms = 10 # The window shift of the cepstral analysis in milliseconds
  >>> n_filters = 24 # The number of filter bands
  >>> n_ceps = 19 # The number of cepstral coefficients
  >>> f_min = 0. # The minimal frequency of the filter bank
  >>> f_max = 4000. # The maximal frequency of the filter bank
  >>> delta_win = 2 # The integer delta value used for computing the first and second order derivatives
  >>> pre_emphasis_coef = 0.97 # The coefficient used for the pre-emphasis
  >>> dct_norm = True # A factor by which the cepstral coefficients are multiplied
  >>> mel_scale = True # Tell whether cepstral features are extracted on a linear (LFCC) or Mel (MFCC) scale

Once the parameters are precised, :py:func:`bob.ap.Ceps` can be called as follows:

.. doctest:: iptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> c = bob.ap.Ceps(rate, win_length_ms, win_shift_ms, n_filters, n_ceps, f_min, f_max, delta_win, pre_emphasis_coef, mel_scale, dct_norm)
  >>> signal = numpy.cast['float'](signal) # vector should be in **float**
  >>> mfcc = c(signal)
  >>> len(mfcc)
  199
  >>> len(mfcc[0])
  19

 
LFCCs can be computed instead of MFCCs by setting **mel_scale** to **False**
   
.. doctest:: iptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> c.mel_scale = False
  >>> c = bob.ap.Ceps(rate, win_length_ms, win_shift_ms, n_filters, n_ceps, f_min, f_max, delta_win, pre_emphasis_coef, mel_scale, dct_norm)
  >>> lfcc = c(signal)
  
User can also choose to extract the energy. This is typically used for Voice Activity Detection. Please check spkRecLib or FaceRecLib for more details about VAD.

.. doctest:: iptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> c.with_energy = True
  >>> lfcc_e = c(signal)
  >>> len(lfcc_e)
  199
  >>> len(lfcc_e[0])
  20

It is also possible to compute first and second derivatives for those features:

  >>> c.with_delta = True
  >>> c.with_delta_delta = True
  >>> lfcc_e_d_dd = c(signal)
  >>> len(lfcc_e_d_dd)
  199
  >>> len(lfcc_e_d_dd[0])
  60

Commit message:

fix bugs in doctest::aptest

python/doc/TutorialsAP.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Elie Khoury <Elie.Khoury@idiap.ch>
.. Mon Jan 21 20:57:30 2013 +0100
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Idiap Research Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. testsetup:: aptest
  
  import bob
  import numpy
  import math
  import os
    

  def F(m, f):
    from pkg_resources import resource_filename
    return resource_filename('bob.%s.test' % m, os.path.join('data', f))

  wave_path = F('ap', 'sample.wav')


*****************************
 Audio processing
*****************************


Introduction
============

This section will give a deeper insight in some simple and some more complex audio processing utilities of |project|. Currently, only cepstral extraction module is available. We are planning to update and add more features in the near future.


Simple audio processing
=======================
Below are 3 examples on how to read a wavefile and how to compute Linear frequency Cepstral Coefficients (LFCC) and Mel frequency cepstrum coefficients (MFCC).

Reading audio files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The usual native formats can be read with **scipy.io.wavfile** module. Other wave formats can be found in some other python modules like **pysox**.

.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> import scipy.io.wavfile
  >>> print wave_path
  /idiap/user/ekhoury/cxx_features/bob/bob_elie_3/build/lib/python2.7/site-packages/bob/ap/test/data/sample.wav
  >>> rate, signal = scipy.io.wavfile.read(str(wave_path)) # the data is read in its native format
  >>> print rate
  8000
  >>> print signal
  [  28   72   58 ..., -301   89  230]

In the above example, the sampling rate of the audio signal is **8 KHz** and the signal array is of type **int16**.

User can directly compute the duration of signal (in seconds):

.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> print len(signal)/rate 
  2


LFCC and MFCC Extraction
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The LFCC and MFCC coefficients can be extracted from a audio signal by using :py:func:`bob.ap.Ceps`. To do so, several parameters can be precised by the user. Typically, these are precised in a configuration file. The following values are the default ones:
 
.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> win_length_ms = 20 # The window length of the cepstral analysis in milliseconds
  >>> win_shift_ms = 10 # The window shift of the cepstral analysis in milliseconds
  >>> n_filters = 24 # The number of filter bands
  >>> n_ceps = 19 # The number of cepstral coefficients
  >>> f_min = 0. # The minimal frequency of the filter bank
  >>> f_max = 4000. # The maximal frequency of the filter bank
  >>> delta_win = 2 # The integer delta value used for computing the first and second order derivatives
  >>> pre_emphasis_coef = 0.97 # The coefficient used for the pre-emphasis
  >>> dct_norm = True # A factor by which the cepstral coefficients are multiplied
  >>> mel_scale = True # Tell whether cepstral features are extracted on a linear (LFCC) or Mel (MFCC) scale

Once the parameters are precised, :py:func:`bob.ap.Ceps` can be called as follows:

.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> c = bob.ap.Ceps(rate, win_length_ms, win_shift_ms, n_filters, n_ceps, f_min, f_max, delta_win, pre_emphasis_coef, mel_scale, dct_norm)
  >>> signal = numpy.cast['float'](signal) # vector should be in **float**
  >>> mfcc = c(signal)
  >>> print len(mfcc)
  199
  >>> print len(mfcc[0])
  19

LFCCs can be computed instead of MFCCs by setting **mel_scale** to **False**
   
.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> c.mel_scale = False
  >>> lfcc = c(signal)
  
User can also choose to extract the energy. This is typically used for Voice Activity Detection. Please check spkRecLib or FaceRecLib for more details about VAD.

.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> c.with_energy = True
  >>> lfcc_e = c(signal)
  >>> print len(lfcc_e)
  199
  >>> print len(lfcc_e[0])
  20

It is also possible to compute first and second derivatives for those features:

.. doctest:: aptest
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE
  
  >>> c.with_delta = True
  >>> c.with_delta_delta = True
  >>> lfcc_e_d_dd = c(signal)
  >>> print len(lfcc_e_d_dd)
  199
  >>> print len(lfcc_e_d_dd[0])
  60
