src/python/measure/doc/index.rst, before:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Wed Apr 20 08:19:36 2011 +0200
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Reasearch Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. Index file for the Python bob::measure bindings

========================
 Performance Evaluation
========================

Methods in the :py:mod:`bob.measure` module help you evaluating error in
multi-class or binary classification problems. If you are not yet familiarized
with aspects of performance evaluation, we recommend the following papers
for an overview of some of the methods implemented.

* Bengio, S., Keller, M., Mariéthoz, J. (2004). `The Expected Performance
  Curve`_.  International Conference on Machine Learning ICML Workshop on ROC
  Analysis in Machine Learning, 136(1), 1963–1966. 
* Martin, A., Doddington, G., Kamm, T., Ordowski, M., & Przybocki, M. (1997).
  `The DET curve in assessment of detection task performance`_. Fifth European
  Conference on Speech Communication and Technology (pp. 1895-1898).

Overview
--------

A classifier is subject to two types of errors, either the real access/signal
is rejected (false rejection) or an impostor attack/noise is accepted (false
acceptance). A possible way to measure the detection performance is to use the
Half Total Error Rate (HTER), which combines the False Rejection Rate (FRR) and
the False Acceptance Rate (FAR) and is defined in the following formula:

.. math::

  HTER(\tau, \mathcal{D}) = \frac{FAR(\tau, \mathcal{D}) + FRR(\tau, \mathcal{D})}{2} \quad \textrm{[\%]} 

where :math:`\mathcal{D}` denotes the used dataset. Since both the FAR and the
FRR depends on the threshold :math:`\tau`, they are strongly related to each
other: increasing the FAR will reduce the FRR and vice-versa. For this reason,
results are often presented using either Receiver Operating Characteristic
(ROC) or Detection-Error Tradeoff (DET) curves, which basically plots the FAR
versus the FRR for different values of the threshold. Another widely used
measure to summarise the performance of a system is the Equal Error Rate (EER),
defined as the point along the ROC or DET curve where the FAR equals the FRR.

However, it was noted in by Bengio (2004) that ROC and DET curves may be
misleading when comparing systems. Hence, the so-called Expected Performance
Curve (EPC) was proposed, and consists in an unbiased estimate of the reachable
performance of a system at various operating points.  Indeed, in real-world
scenario, the threshold :math:`\tau` has to be set a priori: this is typically
done using a development set (also called validation set). Nevertheless, the
optimal threshold can be different depending on the relative importance given
to the FAR and the FRR. Hence, in the EPC framework, the cost :math:`\beta \in
[0;1]` is defined as the tradeoff between FAR and FRR. The optimal threshold
:math:`\tau^*` is then computed using different values of :math:`\beta`,
corresponding to different operating points:

.. math::
  \tau^{*} = \arg\!\min_{\tau} \quad \beta \cdot \textrm{FAR}(\tau, \mathcal{D}_{d}) + (1-\beta) \cdot \textrm{FRR}(\tau, \mathcal{D}_{d})

where :math:`\mathcal{D}_{d}` denotes the development set.

Performance for different values of :math:`\beta` is then computed on the test
set :math:`\mathcal{D}_{t}` using the previously found threshold. Note that
setting :math:`\beta` to 0.5 yields to the Half Total Error Rate (HTER) as
defined in the first equation.

.. note::

  Most of the methods availabe in this module require as input a set of 2
  :py:class:`bob.core.array.float64_1` objects that contain the scores
  obtained by the classification system to be evaluated, without specific
  order. The first set, refered in this manual as the **negatives** represents
  the impostor attacks or noise response of the classifier. The second set,
  refered as the **positives** represents the client or signal response of the
  classifier. 

  The input to create these two vectors is generated by experiments conducted
  by the user and normally sits in files that need some parsing before these
  vectors can be extracted.

  While it is not possible to provide a parser for every individual file that
  may be generated in different experiment frameworks, we do provide a few
  parsers for formats we use the most. Please refer to the documentation of
  :py:mod:`bob.measure.load` for a list of formats and details.

  In the reminder of this section we assume you have successfuly parsed and
  loaded your scores in two 1-D float64 vectors and are ready to evaluate the
  performance of the classifier.

Evaluation
----------

To count the number of correctly classified positives and negatives you can use
the following techniques:

.. code-block:: python

  import bob
  negatives, positives = parse_my_scores(...) #write parser if not provided!
  T = 0.0 #Threshold: later we explain how one can calculate these
  correct_negatives = bob.measure.correctlyClassifiedNegatives(negatives, T)
  FAR = 1 - (float(correct_negatives.extent(0))/negatives.extent(0))
  correct_positives = bob.measure.correctlyClassifiedPositives(positives, T)
  FRR = 1 - (float(correct_positives.extent(0))/positives.extent(0))

We do provide a method to calculate the FAR and FRR in a single shot:

.. code-block:: python

  FAR, FRR = bob.measure.farfrr(negatives, positives, T)

The threshold ``T`` is normally calculated by looking at the distribution of
negatives and positives in a development (or validation) set, selecting a
threshold that matches a certain criteria, and applying this found threshold to
the test set. This technique gives a better overview of the method
generalization. We implement different techniques for the calculation of the
threshold:

* Threshold for the EER

  .. code-block:: python

    T = bob.measure.eerThreshold(negatives, positives)

* Threshold for the minimum HTER
  
  .. code-block:: python

    T = bob.measure.minHterThreshold(negatives, positives)

* Threshold for the minimum weighted error rate (MWER) given a certain cost
  :math:`\beta`.

  .. code-block:: python

    cost = 0.3 #or "beta"
    T = bob.measure.minWeightedErrorRateThreshold(negatives, positives, cost)

  .. note::

    By setting cost to 0.5 is equivalent to use
    :py:meth:`bob.measure.minHterThreshold`.

Plotting
--------

An image is worth 1000 words, they say. You can combine the capabilities of
`Matplotlib`_ with |project|'s to plot a number of curves. You must have that
package installed though, be aware. In this section we describe a few recipes.

ROC
===

The Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve is one of the oldest plots in
town. To plot a ROC curve, in possession of your **negatives** and
**positives**, just do something along these lines:

.. code-block:: python

  import matplotlib.pyplot as mpl
  # we assume you have your negatives and positives already split
  npoints = 100
  bob.measure.plot.roc(negatives, positives, npoints, color=(0,0,0),
      linestyle='-', label='test')
  mpl.xlabel('FRR (%)')
  mpl.ylabel('FAR (%)')
  mpl.grid(True)

As can be observed, plotting methods live in the namespace
:py:mod:`bob.measure.plot`. They work like `Matplotlib`_'s `plot()`_ method
itself, except that instead of receiving the x and y point coordinates as
parameters, they receive the two :py:class:`bob.core.array.float64_1` arrays
with negatives and positives, as well as an indication of the number of points
the curve must contain. 

As in `Matplotlib`_'s `plot()`_ command, you can pass optional parameters for
the line as shown in the example to setup its color, shape and even the label.
For an overview of the keywords accepted, please refer to the `Matplotlib`_'s
Documentation. Other plot properties such as the plot title, axis labels,
grids, legends should be controlled directly using the relevant `Matplotlib`_'s
controls.

DET
===

A DET curve can be drawn using commands such as the ones for the ROC curve:

.. code-block:: python

  import matplotlib.pyplot as mpl
  # we assume you have your negatives and positives already split
  npoints = 100
  bob.measure.plot.det(negatives, positives, npoints, color=(0,0,0),
      linestyle='-', label='test')
  mpl.xlabel('FRR (%)')
  mpl.ylabel('FAR (%)')
  mpl.grid(True)

.. note::

  If you wish to reset axis zooming, you must use the gaussian scale rather
  than the visual marks showed at the plot, which are just there for
  displaying purposes. The real axis scale is based on the
  ``bob.measure.ppndf()`` method. For example, if you wish to set the x and y
  axis to display data between 1% and 40% here is the recipe:

  .. code-block:: python

    #AFTER you plot the DET curve, just set the axis in this way:
    mpl.axis([bob.measure.ppndf(k/100.0) for k in (1, 40, 1, 40)])

  We provide a convenient way for you to do the above in this module. So,
  optionally, you may use the ``bob.measure.plot.det_axis`` method like this:

  .. code-block:: python

    bob.measure.plot.det_axis([1, 40, 1, 40])

EPC
===

A EPC curve to be drawn, requires that both the development set negatives and
positives to be provided alongside with the test set ones. So, the API is
slightly modified:

.. code-block:: python

  bob.measure.plot.epc(dev_neg, dev_pos, test_neg, test_pos, npoints, 
      color=(0,0,0), linestyle='-')

Fine-tunning
============

The methods inside :py:mod:`bob.measure.plot` are only provided as a
`Matplotlib`_ wrapper to equivalent methods in :py:mod:`bob.measure` that can
only calculate the points without doing any plotting. You may prefer to tweak
the plotting or even use a different plotting system such as gnuplot. Have a
look at the implementations at :py:mod:`bob.measure.plot` to understand how
to use the |project| methods to compute the curves and interlace that in the
way that best suites you.

Full Applications
-----------------

We do provide a few scripts that can be used to quickly evaluate a set of
scores. We present these scripts in this section. The scripts take as input
either a 4-column or 5-column data format as specified in the documentation of
:py:mod:`bob.measure.load.four_column` or
:py:mod:`bob.measure.load.five_column`.

To calculate the threshold using a certain criteria (EER, min.HTER or weighted
Error Rate) on a set, after setting up |project|, just do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ eval_threshold.py --scores=development-scores-4col.txt
  Threshold: -0.004787956164
  FAR : 6.731% (35/520)
  FRR : 6.667% (26/390)
  HTER: 6.699%

The output will present the threshold together with the FAR, FRR and HTER on
the given set, calculated using such a threshold. The relative counts of FA's
and FR's are also displayed between parenthesis.

To evaluate the performance of a new score file with a given threshold, use the
application ``apply_threshold.py``:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ apply_threshold.py --scores=test-scores-4col.txt --threshold=-0.0047879
  FAR : 2.115% (11/520)
  FRR : 7.179% (28/390)
  HTER: 4.647%

In this case, only the error figures are presented. You can conduct the
evaluation and plotting of development and test set data using our combined
``compute_perf.py`` script. You pass both sets and it does the rest:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ compute_perf.py --devel=development-scores-4col.txt --test=test-scores-4col.txt 
  [Min. criterium: EER] Threshold on Development set: -4.787956e-03
         | Development     | Test           
  -------+-----------------+------------------
    FAR  | 6.731% (35/520) | 2.500% (13/520)
    FRR  | 6.667% (26/390) | 6.154% (24/390)
    HTER | 6.699%          | 4.327%         
  [Min. criterium: Min. HTER] Threshold on Development set: 3.411070e-03
         | Development     | Test           
  -------+-----------------+------------------
    FAR  | 4.231% (22/520) | 1.923% (10/520)
    FRR  | 7.949% (31/390) | 7.692% (30/390)
    HTER | 6.090%          | 4.808%         
  [Plots] Performance curves => 'curves.pdf'

Inside that script we evaluate 2 different thresholds based on the EER and the
minimum HTER on the development set and apply the output to the test set. As
can be seen from the toy-example above, the system generalizes reasonably well.
A single PDF file is generated containing ROC, DET and EPC curves of such a
system.

Use the ``--help`` option on the above-cited scripts to find-out about more
options.

References
----------

Core
====

.. automodule:: bob.measure
   :members:

Plotting
========

.. automodule:: bob.measure.plot
   :members:

File Parsing and Loading
========================

.. automodule:: bob.measure.load
   :members:

.. Place youre references here:

.. _`The Expected Performance Curve`: http://publications.idiap.ch/downloads/reports/2005/bengio_2005_icml.pdf
.. _`The DET curve in assessment of detection task performance`: http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.117.4489&rep=rep1&type=pdf
.. _`Matplotlib`: http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/ 
.. _`plot()`: http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/api/pyplot_api.html#matplotlib.pyplot.plot

Commit message:

Documentation fixes after numpy mods; simplifications and removal of outdated stuff

src/python/measure/doc/index.rst, after:

.. vim: set fileencoding=utf-8 :
.. Andre Anjos <andre.anjos@idiap.ch>
.. Wed Apr 20 08:19:36 2011 +0200
.. 
.. Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Idiap Reasearch Institute, Martigny, Switzerland
.. 
.. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.. it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.. the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
.. 
.. This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.. but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.. MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.. GNU General Public License for more details.
.. 
.. You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.. along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

.. Index file for the Python bob::measure bindings

========================
 Performance Evaluation
========================

Methods in the :py:mod:`bob.measure` module help you evaluating error in
multi-class or binary classification problems. If you are not yet familiarized
with aspects of performance evaluation, we recommend the following papers
for an overview of some of the methods implemented.

* Bengio, S., Keller, M., Mariéthoz, J. (2004). `The Expected Performance
  Curve`_.  International Conference on Machine Learning ICML Workshop on ROC
  Analysis in Machine Learning, 136(1), 1963–1966. 
* Martin, A., Doddington, G., Kamm, T., Ordowski, M., & Przybocki, M. (1997).
  `The DET curve in assessment of detection task performance`_. Fifth European
  Conference on Speech Communication and Technology (pp. 1895-1898).

Overview
--------

A classifier is subject to two types of errors, either the real access/signal
is rejected (false rejection) or an impostor attack/noise is accepted (false
acceptance). A possible way to measure the detection performance is to use the
Half Total Error Rate (HTER), which combines the False Rejection Rate (FRR) and
the False Acceptance Rate (FAR) and is defined in the following formula:

.. math::

  HTER(\tau, \mathcal{D}) = \frac{FAR(\tau, \mathcal{D}) + FRR(\tau, \mathcal{D})}{2} \quad \textrm{[\%]} 

where :math:`\mathcal{D}` denotes the used dataset. Since both the FAR and the
FRR depends on the threshold :math:`\tau`, they are strongly related to each
other: increasing the FAR will reduce the FRR and vice-versa. For this reason,
results are often presented using either Receiver Operating Characteristic
(ROC) or Detection-Error Tradeoff (DET) curves, which basically plots the FAR
versus the FRR for different values of the threshold. Another widely used
measure to summarise the performance of a system is the Equal Error Rate (EER),
defined as the point along the ROC or DET curve where the FAR equals the FRR.

However, it was noted in by Bengio (2004) that ROC and DET curves may be
misleading when comparing systems. Hence, the so-called Expected Performance
Curve (EPC) was proposed, and consists in an unbiased estimate of the reachable
performance of a system at various operating points.  Indeed, in real-world
scenario, the threshold :math:`\tau` has to be set a priori: this is typically
done using a development set (also called cross-validation set). Nevertheless,
the optimal threshold can be different depending on the relative importance
given to the FAR and the FRR. Hence, in the EPC framework, the cost
:math:`\beta \in [0;1]` is defined as the tradeoff between FAR and FRR. The
optimal threshold :math:`\tau^*` is then computed using different values of
:math:`\beta`, corresponding to different operating points:

.. math::
  \tau^{*} = \arg\!\min_{\tau} \quad \beta \cdot \textrm{FAR}(\tau, \mathcal{D}_{d}) + (1-\beta) \cdot \textrm{FRR}(\tau, \mathcal{D}_{d})

where :math:`\mathcal{D}_{d}` denotes the development set.

Performance for different values of :math:`\beta` is then computed on the test
set :math:`\mathcal{D}_{t}` using the previously found threshold. Note that
setting :math:`\beta` to 0.5 yields to the Half Total Error Rate (HTER) as
defined in the first equation.

.. note::

  Most of the methods availabe in this module require as input a set of 2
  :py:class:`numpy.ndarray` objects that contain the scores obtained by the
  classification system to be evaluated, without specific order. The first set,
  refered in this manual as the **negatives** represents the impostor attacks
  or noise response of the classifier. The second set, refered as the
  **positives** represents the client or signal response of the classifier. The
  vectors are called this way because the procedures implemented in this module
  expects that the scores of **negatives** to be statistically distributed to
  the left of signal scores, i.e., the **positives**. If that is not the case,
  one should either invert the input to the methods or multiply all scores
  available by -1, in order to have then inverted.

  The input to create these two vectors is generated by experiments conducted
  by the user and normally sits in files that may need some parsing before
  these vectors can be extracted.

  While it is not possible to provide a parser for every individual file that
  may be generated in different experiment frameworks, we do provide a few
  parsers for formats we use the most. Please refer to the documentation of
  :py:mod:`bob.measure.load` for a list of formats and details.

  In the reminder of this section we assume you have successfuly parsed and
  loaded your scores in two 1D float64 vectors and are ready to evaluate the
  performance of the classifier.

Evaluation
----------

To count the number of correctly classified positives and negatives you can use
the following techniques:

.. code-block:: python

  import bob
  negatives, positives = parse_my_scores(...) #write parser if not provided!
  T = 0.0 #Threshold: later we explain how one can calculate these
  correct_negatives = bob.measure.correctlyClassifiedNegatives(negatives, T)
  FAR = 1 - (float(correct_negatives.size)/negatives.size)
  correct_positives = bob.measure.correctlyClassifiedPositives(positives, T)
  FRR = 1 - (float(correct_positives.size)/positives.size)

We do provide a method to calculate the FAR and FRR in a single shot:

.. code-block:: python

  FAR, FRR = bob.measure.farfrr(negatives, positives, T)

The threshold ``T`` is normally calculated by looking at the distribution of
negatives and positives in a development (or validation) set, selecting a
threshold that matches a certain criteria, and applying this found threshold to
the test set. This technique gives a better overview of the method
generalization. We implement different techniques for the calculation of the
threshold:

* Threshold for the EER

  .. code-block:: python

    T = bob.measure.eerThreshold(negatives, positives)

* Threshold for the minimum HTER
  
  .. code-block:: python

    T = bob.measure.minHterThreshold(negatives, positives)

* Threshold for the minimum weighted error rate (MWER) given a certain cost
  :math:`\beta`.

  .. code-block:: python

    cost = 0.3 #or "beta"
    T = bob.measure.minWeightedErrorRateThreshold(negatives, positives, cost)

  .. note::

    By setting cost to 0.5 is equivalent to use
    :py:meth:`bob.measure.minHterThreshold`.

Plotting
--------

An image is worth 1000 words, they say. You can combine the capabilities of
`Matplotlib`_ with |project|'s to plot a number of curves. You must have that
package installed though, be aware. In this section we describe a few recipes.

ROC
===

The Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve is one of the oldest plots in
town. To plot a ROC curve, in possession of your **negatives** and
**positives**, just do something along these lines:

.. code-block:: python

  import matplotlib.pyplot as mpl
  # we assume you have your negatives and positives already split
  npoints = 100
  bob.measure.plot.roc(negatives, positives, npoints, color=(0,0,0),
      linestyle='-', label='test')
  mpl.xlabel('FRR (%)')
  mpl.ylabel('FAR (%)')
  mpl.grid(True)

As can be observed, plotting methods live in the namespace
:py:mod:`bob.measure.plot`. They work like `Matplotlib`_'s `plot()`_ method
itself, except that instead of receiving the x and y point coordinates as
parameters, they receive the two :py:class:`numpy.ndarray` arrays with
negatives and positives, as well as an indication of the number of points the
curve must contain. 

As in `Matplotlib`_'s `plot()`_ command, you can pass optional parameters for
the line as shown in the example to setup its color, shape and even the label.
For an overview of the keywords accepted, please refer to the `Matplotlib`_'s
Documentation. Other plot properties such as the plot title, axis labels,
grids, legends should be controlled directly using the relevant `Matplotlib`_'s
controls.

DET
===

A DET curve can be drawn using commands such as the ones for the ROC curve:

.. code-block:: python

  import matplotlib.pyplot as mpl
  # we assume you have your negatives and positives already split
  npoints = 100
  bob.measure.plot.det(negatives, positives, npoints, color=(0,0,0),
      linestyle='-', label='test')
  mpl.xlabel('FRR (%)')
  mpl.ylabel('FAR (%)')
  mpl.grid(True)

.. note::

  If you wish to reset axis zooming, you must use the gaussian scale rather
  than the visual marks showed at the plot, which are just there for
  displaying purposes. The real axis scale is based on the
  ``bob.measure.ppndf()`` method. For example, if you wish to set the x and y
  axis to display data between 1% and 40% here is the recipe:

  .. code-block:: python

    #AFTER you plot the DET curve, just set the axis in this way:
    mpl.axis([bob.measure.ppndf(k/100.0) for k in (1, 40, 1, 40)])

  We provide a convenient way for you to do the above in this module. So,
  optionally, you may use the ``bob.measure.plot.det_axis`` method like this:

  .. code-block:: python

    bob.measure.plot.det_axis([1, 40, 1, 40])

EPC
===

A EPC curve to be drawn, requires that both the development set negatives and
positives to be provided alongside with the test set ones. So, the API is
slightly modified:

.. code-block:: python

  bob.measure.plot.epc(dev_neg, dev_pos, test_neg, test_pos, npoints, 
      color=(0,0,0), linestyle='-')

Fine-tunning
============

The methods inside :py:mod:`bob.measure.plot` are only provided as a
`Matplotlib`_ wrapper to equivalent methods in :py:mod:`bob.measure` that can
only calculate the points without doing any plotting. You may prefer to tweak
the plotting or even use a different plotting system such as gnuplot. Have a
look at the implementations at :py:mod:`bob.measure.plot` to understand how
to use the |project| methods to compute the curves and interlace that in the
way that best suites you.

Full Applications
-----------------

We do provide a few scripts that can be used to quickly evaluate a set of
scores. We present these scripts in this section. The scripts take as input
either a 4-column or 5-column data format as specified in the documentation of
:py:mod:`bob.measure.load.four_column` or
:py:mod:`bob.measure.load.five_column`.

To calculate the threshold using a certain criteria (EER, min.HTER or weighted
Error Rate) on a set, after setting up |project|, just do:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ eval_threshold.py --scores=development-scores-4col.txt
  Threshold: -0.004787956164
  FAR : 6.731% (35/520)
  FRR : 6.667% (26/390)
  HTER: 6.699%

The output will present the threshold together with the FAR, FRR and HTER on
the given set, calculated using such a threshold. The relative counts of FA's
and FR's are also displayed between parenthesis.

To evaluate the performance of a new score file with a given threshold, use the
application ``apply_threshold.py``:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ apply_threshold.py --scores=test-scores-4col.txt --threshold=-0.0047879
  FAR : 2.115% (11/520)
  FRR : 7.179% (28/390)
  HTER: 4.647%

In this case, only the error figures are presented. You can conduct the
evaluation and plotting of development and test set data using our combined
``compute_perf.py`` script. You pass both sets and it does the rest:

.. code-block:: sh

  $ compute_perf.py --devel=development-scores-4col.txt --test=test-scores-4col.txt 
  [Min. criterium: EER] Threshold on Development set: -4.787956e-03
         | Development     | Test           
  -------+-----------------+------------------
    FAR  | 6.731% (35/520) | 2.500% (13/520)
    FRR  | 6.667% (26/390) | 6.154% (24/390)
    HTER | 6.699%          | 4.327%         
  [Min. criterium: Min. HTER] Threshold on Development set: 3.411070e-03
         | Development     | Test           
  -------+-----------------+------------------
    FAR  | 4.231% (22/520) | 1.923% (10/520)
    FRR  | 7.949% (31/390) | 7.692% (30/390)
    HTER | 6.090%          | 4.808%         
  [Plots] Performance curves => 'curves.pdf'

Inside that script we evaluate 2 different thresholds based on the EER and the
minimum HTER on the development set and apply the output to the test set. As
can be seen from the toy-example above, the system generalizes reasonably well.
A single PDF file is generated containing ROC, DET and EPC curves of such a
system.

Use the ``--help`` option on the above-cited scripts to find-out about more
options.

References
----------

Core
====

.. automodule:: bob.measure
   :members:

Plotting
========

.. automodule:: bob.measure.plot
   :members:

File Parsing and Loading
========================

.. automodule:: bob.measure.load
   :members:

.. Place youre references here:

.. _`The Expected Performance Curve`: http://publications.idiap.ch/downloads/reports/2005/bengio_2005_icml.pdf
.. _`The DET curve in assessment of detection task performance`: http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.117.4489&rep=rep1&type=pdf
.. _`Matplotlib`: http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/ 
.. _`plot()`: http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/api/pyplot_api.html#matplotlib.pyplot.plot
